---
title: "Buur PD 2000"
date: 2021-08-02 06:12:02
categories: [Notes,Literature]
tags: ["Video", "Participatory Design", "Collaborative Sense-Making", "Reflection"]
context: "I look for definitions, illustrations, phrasings of Human-Centred Design. This paper is quite old, from the participatory design field. However, it promises examples of using video as a design material."
backlinks: []
---

This paper takes me 20 years to the emergence of video as an accessible material. The authors present four cases of using video as design material in a participatory design process. They particularly stress the typical use of video as evidence for others to back up their analysis. Here they illustrate 'designerly' ways of using video.

1. Observation -- Capturing a flow of the ordinary in a video documentary. What is happening? What does the user do? Transparency in the purpose is critical as recording can create intrusion.
2. Roleplay -- Handing the camera to the user or letting the user act out scenarios. The user becomes in control of the data capture. There is a negotiation of the rules, what should be in the story.
3. Collaborative sense-making -- Interaction Analysis Laboratory (IAL) workshop is about designers analysing the data as a team instead of handing the job to experts. They collaborate as a team to analyse the data. As preparation, a designer preselects clips whenever there is something for the design process. A card represents each video clip, tangible reference points to combine as collages. The authors open for future work to invite the user to participate in this analysis.
4. Reflection -- The challenge of several interpretations emerge, creating a need for self-reflection on the design process. Designers reflect in the same setting as their participants (a workshop of workshops). Harry's frustration videos highlight participants being not heard, pushing the designers to reflect.

The authors conclude that videos are an effective material to connect the design stakeholders, to empower them, giving them a voice in the negotiation -- what situation to frame? How is it interpreted?
