---
title: "Speed DRS 2016"
date: 2021-08-11 14:19:58
categories: [Notes,Literature]
tags: []
context: ""
backlinks: []
---

Design from, with, and by design provides the vocabulary on which tools and methods remain to develop.

Speed and Oberlander propose a framework to classify the role of data in design. It helps designers reflect on the role and value they can give to data and leverage data based on the challenge and data they have at the end. They argue that data is _performative_ in design, playing different roles up to "speaking for itself".

* _From_ is when the data is an inspiration material, helping to measure something/someone behaviour in their context. Examples are technology and cultural probes, interviews, contextual mapping, observations.
* _With_ is when data supports the design process by connecting designers with the participants or the community.
* _By_ is when data drive the design process and generate design outputs.

In design _with_ data, Speed and Oberlander highlight the role of data as a link between designers and participants to understand better the impact of products, services, and systems on people. In that sense, it opens information flows in more than one direction. Thus, there is a need to capture these flows and make interventions that enhance human values.

The authors stress the timely importance of design _with_ data to address the full extent of [[human-data-interaction-hdi]]. They raise the dynamic nature of data, conflicting with the 'phase' of an approach like the double-diamond, as data will continue to flow.

They also refer to the _value-constellation_ by Normann and Ramirez (1993), the network of value and stakeholders in an economic context. This terminology connects to the 'Constellation' metaphor by [[coultron-design-2019]], including algorithms as stakeholders in the same way.


## Some References

Normann R, Ramírez R. From value chain to value constellation: designing interactive strategy. Harv Bus Rev. 1993 Jul-Aug;71(4):65-77. PMID: 10127040.