---
title: "Steen STHV 2015"
date: 2021-08-11 06:47:33
categories: [Notes,Literature]
tags: [Human-Centred Design, Participatory Design, Codesign, Ethics, Case Studies]
context: "I look for definitions of Human-Centric Design and related discussions."
backlinks: []
---

What I find interesting here is the focus on the design processes rather than design output. It is the focus of Data-Centric Design, too (trying to understand, support, augment the HCD design process)

In this paper, Steen looks at the ethics in design practices of [[human-centred-design-hcd]], [[participatory-design-pd]], and [[codesign]]. He relies on case studies, exploring three design projects. It is a context-sensitive form of ethics, meaning that it takes roots in a specific project. These projects involved 10-30 people for durations of 2-3 years. The aim is to surface ethical practices blended into HCD, PD and Codesign

Steen relies on [[virtue-ethics-in-participatory-design]] and highlights the need for cultivating virtues of cooperation, curiosity, creativity and empowerment. Then, he uses [[ethics-of-alterity-in-human-centred-design]] to point at the challenge of balancing self and others. Finally, he draws from [[philosophy-of-pragmatism-in-codesign]] to stress the joint and iterative research, design and evaluation inquiry.

He surfaces core recurring themes across the three approaches. First, all start with the cooperation between diverse people. Then, each team member must have the ability to receive (inward-directed moves) and to offer (outward-directed).

Steen offers 'reflexivity' to make ethics practices more explicit and support the continuous redesign of design activities.
